 As the world's automotive fleet migrates increasingly from internal combustion engine vehicles to cars and trucks that are powered by electric batteries, the ramifications ripple much further than monthly sales at the local gas station. Electric vehicles or EVs represent a fundamentally new way of engineering and manufacturing our economy's made mode of conveyance. And these changes are presenting profound challenges to all the industries that depend on motor vehicles, like the automotive repair and maintenance sector and especially the auto insurance sector. Hi, I'm Jack N. Carnacio, investigative research analyst for Newton Investment Management. And I'm Ray Fluhus, Newton's head of specialist investment research. On this episode of Double Take, we take a deeper look at how exactly EVs are reinventing car ownership and the risks and opportunities that reinvention presents to the insurance sector. Are EVs more of a safety danger in the event of an accident? Do EVs tend to get totaled and sent to the scrapyard at higher rates than their fossil fuel-consuming cousins? Joining us to examine those questions and more is Tony Cotto, a leading voice for the American auto insurance industry, whom I met while doing some investigative research into the very topic of this episode, which is how the growth of EVs will impact the auto insurers and other companies in the value chain. Jack, would you care to give our fine listeners Tony's bio? Certainly, Ray. Tony Cotto is director of auto and underwriting policy for the National Association of Mutual Insurance Companies, or NAMIC. Cotto advises NAMIC members on all legislative and regulatory proposals that are related to automobile insurance and risk-based pricing across property casualty insurance lines. He frequently represents NAMIC before federal and state policy makers at the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, the National Council of Insurance Legislators, and various insurance industry organizations, where he provides analysis, research, and testimony on priority issues for the Association and its members. Tony Cotto, welcome to Double Take. Thank you so much, Jack. It's great to be here with you and Ray to talk about a very impactful issue for our members. NAMIC members are very keenly watching the electric vehicle space, as are so many others, but with a sort of a different interest and a different angle. So I'm excited to have this conversation today. Tony, I chuckled because when insurance folks talk about impacts, it's usually not a good thing, but hopefully this is a good thing, right? Tony, I think most of our listeners understand a couple of key facts that matter to this conversation, but I'll just state them to kind of set the table a little bit. One, that auto insurance is compulsory for virtually anyone driving a car in the United States. And secondly, that EVs have fewer moving parts than traditional internal combustion vehicles. And the conventional wisdom for a while now has been that EVs as a result should be easier and cheaper to maintain, possibly less prone to be an accident. You know, EVs represent a larger and larger percentage of new auto sales in the US every year. And even for the big legacy internal combustion automakers, EV sales are now climbing into the double digits of all their sales of any given model. So presumably, we're starting to get some data here and not just conjecture anymore. But can you give our listeners a quick rundown of what the data tells us are the main differences between EVs and internal combustion vehicles when it comes to repair costs, frequency of repairs, length of time for repairs and that kind of thing. Absolutely. And what I'd like to actually do is start off with a little bit of level setting because you did a great job there saying. People understand that auto insurance is compulsory. It's where most people's relationship with insurance starts and ends, unless they're involved in a crash. So hopefully today we can give a little more context around what's going on on our roads in the US and where EVs fit into all of that, because that's, it's all part of a bigger narrative that you're right that the data is starting to tell us something. But let's start with some introductory data right, even though you hear all these stories and you hear probably more so in the Asella corridors of the US that you know cars are going by the wayside cars in the future. Well, as of today, more than three fourths of Americans use a car to get to work. We had the average American spent 52 minutes a day behind the wheel. This past year, that's two weeks of driving two weeks that you're sitting in your car. And we're in a situation now the secretary transportation secretary Buddha judges called a national crisis, where we had 7 million crashes on the roads last year, resulting in 42,000 plus debts. And we're now seeing more vehicle miles traveled than pre COVID. So the cars aren't going away anytime soon. We also have unprecedented level of costs to buy cars. The average cost of cars now 48 grand. The average cost of a used car is almost $30,000. That's unheard of. Then you add the electric vehicles into the mix and you know people talk about electrification. Well, that adds more costs to these cars. So the average electric vehicle is humming around $58,000. And they are fundamentally different than their ice counterparts, as you pointed out, and I want to also be sort of at the outset of the conversation really clear the insurance industry. We are not opposed to technology. We're not anti tech. We're not anti EVs. We are in favor of some things we are pro data. We are pro risk management. We are pro identifying and pricing risks correctly. We are a signaling mechanism to vehicle owners as well. More than anything else we're pro safety. We need to make sure that these vehicles are not only being priced correctly when it comes to risk, but that they're safe for not only the passengers in the vehicle, but the people in other cars that might experience crashes with the vehicles. So with all that is sort of an initial conversation and you said the numbers are increasing. Yes. You're right. The numbers are increasing, but they're still less than 1% of the vehicles on the roads. And 2023 people, EV advocates will say, Oh, this is great. We hit a million EVs sold in the US for the first time. That's awesome. A million EVs. And car sold. So that's 19 million that we're not even that we're sold. And you have to, I think a lot of people make a mistake, a fundamental mistake when they start talking about EVs and where they've been into our road system. We'll never be a one to one substitute for our current ice vehicles. They just, they can't. They don't operate the same way. As you said, there's a lot fewer parts. They're different. My favorite quote about this recently was that they're not less complex. They're differently complex. Okay. So you're talking about 1000 pound batteries. You're talking about motors that have to have coolant running all through the body of the vehicle. You're talking about owners candidly who just don't know necessarily what they're doing or how to drive a car for the first three months that they own an EV. If you had the chance to drive one of these things, it doesn't feel like you're driving a car when you push down on the pedal. The torque is substantially higher than in an ice vehicle. They go faster, they're heavier and they are different and you have to treat them differently. So from an insurance perspective. Among the things that we are starting to see is things like towing costs. You can't just tow an EV on two wheels, the way you tow a car on two wheels. You have to put it up on a flat bed because otherwise those back wheels are still generating energy and they're still generating electricity and they could shock the hell out of a, the heck out of a tow truck drive did not realize that. So flat bed towing costs more than standard towing. And who picks up the tab with a car is toad. It's the insurance company most likely. We are also seeing that technicians need to be trained the technicians in the car repair shops need to be trained differently to work on EVs because if you take a look at like the you pop the hood on that one on a standard F one 50. I'm not an engine and I can see sort of where all the components are. I pop the the frunk as they call it the front trunk on an electric F one 50 and there's nothing there. All the work has to happen under the car. So technicians need to be trained differently and they're going to expect to be paid more if they have some expertise in the electric vehicle sector. Again, we're seeing starting to see some claims data coming not much again. There's, there's just not that many of them out there. We are finding that they are by and large also just to generalizations. They are safer for the inhabitants of the vehicle. Because they weigh so much more. We are finding that they are less susceptible to theft because theft is, you know, anyone who reads the newspapers knows auto thefts are skyrocketing particularly in cities around the country. Carjackings are up like 20 some odd percent. So theft is another real threat that we face. These sound like a couple of positive stony. I mean, it sounds like you're saying less theft less bodily injury. Those are two big ticket items for an insurance company. Where are the negatives less bodily injury for the inhabitants of the vehicle. Which could potentially mean more bodily injury if an EV is striking a different car because you just have that extra thousand pound bad. So when we look at some, I don't know that I would characterize anything as negatives yet in what we're seeing, but I think there are certainly some. Some questions about. How, how well trained people are on things like power sources, regenerative, breaking. There are weather challenges. I will tell you that for sure. Right. It's. There were some headlines with the recent storm that went through the Northwestern United States and some, I think there was a car partner. In Chicago with a bunch of electric vehicle chargers. And even though they were fully charged, they wouldn't start because it was too cold. These are some of the realities that we need to think through other. I don't want to say negatives, but their challenges to be overcome are things like the depreciation. We are finding that depreciation of EVs happens at a much faster rate. Because just like the cell phone that you carry around after a couple of years doesn't charge as well. It doesn't hold a charge as well. Same thing is going to be true with EVs after five years, the battery might say 100%. But it's not going to give you the same 100% that it gave you on day one. So when depreciation goes down, the value of the vehicle goes down. And that's an asset that our members are still insured. So things like aftermarket parts. They don't exist yet for most EVs. So you're getting like 90 plus percent of parts have to come directly from the manufacturer. Those are more expensive. There's hundreds of studies out there that show you aftermarket parts can reduce the cost of rebuilding and fixing a car. So all of these are some of the things that we are starting to see. There is a seminal report that I would recommend anyone interested in this sector read by the British firm faction. And they said that the thing that stuck out to me is there is no part of the motor vehicle claims process that will be unaffected by higher adoption of electric vehicles. And let's say, let's say all the rosy projections are true. Well, I'm not even going to go that far. Let's say half of the rosy projections are true. And we get, we get to a quarter of all Americans driving electric vehicles in the next 20 years. That's still going to affect how our calculations work on the roads and the calculation of risk and individual drivers and consumer behavior. So that's sort of where we are. I'm looking forward to more of the conversation and answering some more of the questions. Yeah, sure, Tony. So let me ask you, you know, of course, you know, traditional vehicles have ADAS systems that have crash detection. They're getting better and better every year. So I'm sure that helps you guys in terms of less collisions. EVs, though, just seem to have, I'm going to use this term. I don't mean it literally infinitely more technology inside of them, right? Sensing adaptive driving, that kind of thing. So is that proving to equate to less accidents with EVs or EVs less prone to collisions? It depends a lot on the driver still, Jack. We are finding, you know, and we're, we're, we're, believe me, the industry is pumping a lot of money into research around all of these things. One of the great untold stories. I feel like in terms of road safety and highway safety is the insurance industry's contribution. I highly recommend anyone listening to this, check out the insurance Institute for highway safety. That's the IIHS. They run a crash testing facility in Ruckersville, Virginia, where they do things like test the safety of electric vehicles among others. They have a, they have a really cool system set up where they tow the vehicle in and then they pull it with a big hook and crash it from all different angles. And the, the insurance industry has been more for safety than I feel like we ever get credit for her. And that's okay. We just, we want our policy holders and drivers to be as safe as possible, which also reduces the cost of those collisions. Are EVs less likely to crash? We don't know yet. That's, that's really the ultimate answer, Jack. But some of the research that we're doing, and this is more on the psychological side is that the abundance of technology, like what you mentioned, the ADAS systems, the lane lane assist, collision warnings backup cameras front front cameras, even now. Are causing an over reliance on the technology. People are developing bad habits and saying, Oh, I don't have to worry because, you know, it's going to be bad. So that's, I think a big part of why we're not seeing crashes go down, even though the tech is superior. We are, we are seeing the severity of injuries go down as related to that technology. So that's a good side. So as I'm thinking of it from the side of, you know, an EV owner potentially. So I have a little bit more of that comfort that if I do get in an accident, you know, stats tell me it might be less severe. But, but also as an owner, I do wonder if I'm enjoying lower maintenance costs. I'm not, you know, as opposed to when something goes horribly wrong and there's a collision. But, you know, month for month, check up for check up over the life of the ownership. I'm sure you guys, you know, consider this as well. Is it cheaper to keep up to date and maintain an EV than, than a nice vehicle? Some components. Yes. We are still figuring this out, but one of the unexpected consequences, I think, that, that EV owners are increasingly disheartened by is how frequently they're having to replace tires. And that's just because this whole transition to now you've suddenly added a thousand pounds to every, to every car when you add these gigantic, gigantic hulking batteries. Well, the tire manufacturers were not in on the conversation. And nobody asked them what, what happens when we add a thousand pounds to every car. So you've got EV owners who are not thrilled that they're having to replace their tires every 5000 miles. In the grand scheme of things, that's probably a lower cost than having to replace your starter your alternator, some of the other traditional components. Being optimistic. Again, I think time, time will probably even out the costs of maintenance and ownership. Right now, early stages, it's less expensive to maintain an EV. I don't know how true that will be four or five years from now once they start to show somewhere in Tare. Well, underwriting is all about the data so you can assess the risk, right? Well, here's, here's another component for the insurers when an automobile does get into an accident, a severe accident, let's say, one of the major decisions your members have to make is whether you just consider the car total and sell it to the scrapyard. It's a major decision. And what I guess I wonder is, it seems to me, I've seen a lot of conflicting conversation about whether EVs are more prone to be considered total and sent to the scrapyard. Some people say, you know, the batteries, you know, you get one little nickname and the whole cars a gunner. Other people say, Hey, but it's really tough to hurt a battery that's on the underside of a car. So can you walk us through what the insurers are seeing when it comes to scrappage rates, you know, totaling that kind of thing with EVs versus maybe, I mean, it has to be kind of a comparable ice vehicle, right? So maybe a higher ticket luxury kind of, you know, vehicle. Absolutely. So you're, you're, you're, you're spot on there. Every crash and every incident is different. And because we have so again, this is the problem here is the lack of data. We have a positive data just because there aren't that many of them out there experiencing crashes get it. So, for instance, there was a report, I think last fall that indicated EVs were like five or six times as likely to be total. Well, that report was heavily impacted because one particular fleet had several crashes and just totaled all of them. And that swayed the report heavily one way. The experience to date is that they are largely comparable in terms of totaling rates. It depends on the carrier. It depends on honestly it depends on the month right now because the way the crashes are happening is it's inconsistent and adoption is a real challenge because you see these EVs. And I think this is going to continue for some time. There's a proliferation of EVs in urban centers. Okay, like you see where people don't really drive that much. An EV might make sense. An EV could be a great second car third car weekend car. For daily drivers in the parts of the country where I live in the big square states and EV is very hard to justify because you're going long distances. And they just haven't proven their liability. So with the positive of data. You're also right. Batteries are treated differently, but I will say they are because they are the biggest single biggest cost component of an EV. If a battery is damaged, that's going to be a big claim. That's, that's going to be a challenge to repair. And we are still seeing that I will give credit to, you know, the big thinkers out there and the big idea folks, because there are dozens of companies that are looking to be the market leaders in recycling these batteries and saving these batteries and finding ways to make them work again, rather than what you've described, which is, oh, there's a nick in the battery. It's shot. We got to get rid of the whole car. The battery recycling groups, the, that they're just, there's a lot of excitement around how we fix the problem you've identified. And yeah, they're tougher to get to because they're under that center panel by and large, right? You don't see a whole lot of crashes where the damage is primarily to the bottom center panel under the driver. But you do see a lot of single car crashes where that where that handle gets affected. If people hit speed bumps, you could inadvertently like, let's just say you're, you're, you're not even seeing the speed bump you're, you're doing your cruising 35 and you hit one speed bump too hard. Sure. There's protectors on that battery underneath you. But if even one of those cells or one of those, one of those lithium ion cells is leaking, you got a fire risk on your hands for the rest of the life of that. That's where we wanted to go next because there was so much hype as EVs were starting to get popular that the lithium ion batteries are really prone to deadly fires and that even a towny amount of damage. As you said there to packs or cells meant massive, some cases irreparable harm to the vehicle. So just, just further to that point, how much of that is proving true. We see you were vehicle fires with EVs. So that's a positive right we're accentuating positives where we can. Well, that is counterintuitive. That is fascinating. Okay. Good to know. With a giant, however, after that. Okay. When they do catch on fire, they can be on fire for four days. It takes 20,000 gallons of water to extinguish an EV fire. And for listeners who are on the science side and who are interested in the sort of science geek kind of stuff, I would encourage folks to look up a term called thermal runaway. It is the nightmare for fire departments all around the country to have a thermal runaway situation where an electric vehicle that they thought had been put out. The fire comes back. So it reignites. This causes problems, not only at a crash site potentially, but also during towing. And when a car is sitting at a repair shop or a salvage lot. In theory, you should really be isolating these vehicles that takes up a lot of space. And storage costs are already through the roof. If you tell a repair shop, hey, I need you to empty four other base because there's an EV coming in that caught on fire. That's four days that aren't making money. So really, really interesting concepts around this thermal runaway fire that again, right? Yes, we're seeing fewer of the EVs catch on fire, but when they do, it's really, really bad. Got it. So let's bring it down to the level that most people care about in your industry as well as the consumer who is thinking of buying a car, which is the premiums. From what I gather, EV policies do tend to be more expensive than a comparable ice vehicle with the same kind of MSRP or whatever. But everything you're telling me, it sounds like it's kind of a wash in terms of maybe some of the safety, some of the repair, some of the intensity. So why are they more expensive for these policies? Gently, the risks are still being learned. We are, we are still developing actuarial tables and the correct math around it. So unknown unknowns as they would say. Unknown unknowns and unknown unknowns. Car insurance rates are developed over decades. And we talked earlier about mandatory coverage, right? And mandatory liabilities. A lot of those laws are passed in the 1950s and are still being updated today to reflect the modern price of vehicles. And how roads really work. So insurance is inevitably a tail on costs, right? We look at experience, we look at data and we say, okay, well, now we know better what the actual cost of this is. It's really quite an amazing product and not just not just as the insurance trade association guy here, but insurance is one of the only products that we don't know the price that it's going to cost at the time we sell the product. We are fundamentally in a business of delivering a promise, a financial promise to policy holders to be there for them on the worst day of their life, which is when they have a crash. So the math is working itself out. And I think over time, we will see as more of these EVs are on the road, we will get more and more accurate with the rating and the pricing. And the key to that is preserving at a state level, the freedom that insurance companies need to do the math. And I think there's a lot of people who are going to follow up on that, Tony. There is one particular automaker in this market run by a guy whose name rhymes with Neewan Tusk. His brand has represented a massive majority of the EVs on the market to date. And so what I wonder is, you know, how you as an industry deal with risk when the history of the data is predominantly from one OEM, but the future is going to be from multiple OEMs. And is it unfair or maybe too generous to the other OEMs to base future rates on what happened with mostly one maker? I don't think it's unfair. I wouldn't characterize it as unfair. I think the amount of learning to be done here and the curve is going to be challenging for our members. As we've noted a couple of times, right, a million EVs were sold last year. There was a huge spike in reality demand is coming down significantly in certain segments of the population. So while they are there, while they popular among college educated to income households, the reality of America is that most people are not looking to buy EVs and the unfortunate manner in which they have become politicized anyone who watched the Congressional hearing on the federal EV expansion grants a couple of weeks ago in the Senate Environmental Committee. It's getting to an unfortunate point where if you have a D next to your name, you have to be pro EV and if you have an R next to your name, you have to be a skeptic. That's not that's not helpful from an insurance industry perspective. When we talk about pricing and we talk about additional models and additional OEM data. And that's great. We want more models. We want more data. We want more opportunities for people to diversify risks so that we can understand them better. And so that we can get the rates more and more accurate. There have unquestionably been added challenges with the specific maker and some of the models that you mentioned because there are also repair challenges. There are some monopolization of repair issues related that cause increased prices as well, because many of our members have what we call DRPs their direct repair program so that when you're involved in a crash, your insurance company says, hey, we've already got relationships with these 20 auto shops. Take it to one of them. They'll take care of that doesn't exist for EVs. One of the things the EV makers have been debating and experimenting with over the years is different battery chemistries. This one is going to be the solution. This one's so much better. This one's more efficient. This one's less risk prone. It's just a constantly evolving situation. Also power systems. The different power systems EVs are going to use. Do you guys have any sense of whether certain chemistries are better for you guys to be able to keep premiums down versus others? I think it's more about the build than the chemistry right now, Jack. I don't know that. Look, insurance companies are great at measuring risk. I don't know that we that that many of our members have a bunch of chemists on staff who are measuring the different battery components up with that said, we have some amazing sort of innovation units at. I think we have a lot of dynamic member companies, which, which is superb. And they are investing in the technology and trying to understand it better for competitive advantage purposes. But I don't know that we have a firm grasp yet on the chemistry of how these things are powered. The build. And as I was mentioning in the low back and forth with Ray for earlier, putting the 1000 pound battery underneath the driver. Like that has certainly helped reduce the likelihood that the battery is affected in a front crash or a rear fenderman. Because the way cars crumple, they don't crumple under the dirt. You know, a big piece of your job is talking to the policymakers, the lawmakers, the regulators. And presumably you do that to facilitate the best environment for auto insurers, right? And as these EVs are further penetrating the market, I wonder what the industry is hoping to see from Washington from state insurance regulators. So that would really move the needle for your industry. Sure, I appreciate that question, Ray. And I, in conjunction with what I mentioned before about the politicization of the EV discussion. I think one big ask that our industry and candidly all taxpayers should have when we have these discussions is for government actors to be grounded in facts. And in reality and in math, not in agendas, it is really, really frustrating that at this moment in time, the biggest purveyor of misinformation and disinformation about electric vehicles is the federal government. There has been a mandate that has come out that says, you know, we are going to push these things, whether consumers want them or not. And we are going to make, we're going to make up math to make it work. A report just came out recently that the transportation department and the energy department had different rules for evaluating the mileage estimates on a charge. And it resulted in a 6.67% multiply to the estimated mileage on a single charge, because federal employees said they made it up basically and said, oh, you know, we'll just use this number and that'll be the estimated charge. We need to ground these conversations in facts, particularly at the federal level. At the state level, I think policymakers have to start thinking about things like road usage charges, because they're losing gas taxes. And we do not want them looking, obviously, at the insurance industry and saying, hey, you know what, we lost some gas taxes because there's a bunch of EVs, you guys are making more money on EVs. So you need to kick some of that back to the state so we can fix the roads here and can tell you where I live there. And you're going to get a generated a annual fee for electric vehicles, because you are impacting the roads. You are, I should say, affecting the roads with your usage and you're not paying the tax as much. So states are looking at a whole bunch of different ways to do that. I think the plea is don't blame the insurance industry because people buy EVs. And if you, one way or the other, the second ask would be to echo what I said before, to preserve our underwriting freedom. We will have the data. We will bring you the data. We will show you why it is that we need to price them differently. But we need time and experience to do that. And what we absolutely cannot have is whether elected or appointed for an insurance regulator to say, I don't buy it. You guys have to treat ice and even the same. It's mathematically incorrect. Well, a lot of math to suss out. We can count on the industry to find it. Like you said, hopefully in the years to come. So Tony Cotto, director of auto and underwriting policy for the National Association of Mutual Insurance Companies was terrific talking to you. Thanks for getting us oriented. A lot of questions answered, but just as many raised. No kidding. We're going to be answering questions about this issue for a long time. For institutional clients only issued by Newton Investment Management North America LLC, Nimna or the firm. Nimna is a registered investment advisor with the US Securities Exchange Commission, SEC and subsidiary of the Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, being Y Mellon. The firm was established in 2021 and is part of the group of affiliate companies that individually or collectively provide investment advisory services under the brand new and or new investment management. Newton currently includes Nimna and new investment management limited Nim and that new investment management Japan limited Nimjay material in this publication is for general information only. The opinions expressed in this document are those of Newton and should not be construed as investment advice or recommendations for any purchase or sale of any specific security or commodity. Certain information contained herein is based on outside sources believed to be reliable, but its accuracy is not guaranteed. And you refer friends to a specific security, country or sector should not be construed as a recommendation to buy or sell investments in those securities, countries or sectors. This material is provided for general information only and should not be construed as investment advice or recommendation. You should consult with your advisor to determine whether any particular investment strategy is appropriate. Statements are current as of the date of the material only. Any forward looking statements speak only of as of the date they are made in our subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties which change over time. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated and forward looking statements. Some information contained herein has been obtained by third party sources that are believed to be reliable, but the information does not been independently verified by Newton. Newton makes no representations as to the accuracy or the completeness of such information and has no obligation to revise or update any statement herein for any reason. Newton manages a variety of investment strategies. How ESG analysis is integrated into Newton's strategies depends on the asset classes and or the particular strategy involved. Newton does not currently view certain types of investments as presenting ESG risks and opportunities and believes it is not practicable to evaluate such risks and opportunities for certain other investments, where ESG is considered other attributes of an investment may outweigh ESG considerations when making investment decisions. Analysis of themes may vary depending on the type of security, investment rationale and investment strategy. Newton will make investment decisions that are not based on themes and may conclude that other attributes of an investment outweigh the thematic structure the security is going to assign to. If distributed in the UK, Australia and New Zealand, this podcast is issued by NIM and may be deemed a financial promotion. NIM is authorized and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, FCA, 12 Endeavour Square, London, E21 JN in the conduct of investment business, registered in England, number 0137193. NIM is also registered as an investment advisor with the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC to offer investment advisory services in the United States. If distributed in Canada, NIM is surveilling itself of the International Advisor Exemption, IAE and the following provinces, Alberta, British Columbia, Manitoba and Ontario, including the foreign commodity trading advisor exemption in Ontario. The IAE is in compliance with the National Instrument 31-103 registration requirements, exemptions and ongoing registrant obligations.