 The COVID-19 pandemic led to the death and suffering of millions globally, but for investing purposes as crashes it may sound, it turbocharged several industries that have been slowly gathering steam previously. We all remember what happened without doors, products, personal fitness equipment, warehousing, subscription services, home delivery businesses, kitchen equipment, home furnishings and on and on. What had been relatively sleepy corners of the economy were suddenly stock market darlings, and the only debate remaining was, is this a permanent change or just a transient bout of irrational exuberance and a reversion to the mean was coming? Which brings us to telemedicine, with Americans both locked down at home and suffering any number of maladies, the promise of virtual healthcare exploded onto the scene during the COVID pandemic, and with it the dawn of a new era in which access to healthcare for Americans regardless of where they live would increase dramatically. Sure you have the Google's apples and Amazon tech titans who've dipped a toe in the virtual healthcare pool. There's also a few well established publicly traded incumbents like Amwell and Teladoc, but what of all those unicorns and startups that sprouted up during the lockdowns promising any number of new remote treatments and patient monitoring solutions? Were they a flash in the pan, destined to suffer a bubbles burst, or is their staying power in them their hills? I'm Jack in Karnasio. Welcome in, investigative research analyst here at Newton Investment Management. And I'm Ray Fluis, head of Newton's specialist research teams, and this is Double Take. The Newton Investment Management podcast that focuses on the big beefy topics that investors can and should be examining as they shape their portfolios for the future. And on today's episode, we bring you not one, but two experts in the field of telemedicine to level set us for the post pandemic era. One of those experts is Jason Baudeleri, the US general manager for SHL telemedicine, which is an Israel based company that's commercializing telehealth solutions like Smartheart, which is a portable electrocardiogram for heart attack detection. And they're also working on advanced telemedicine services for diagnosing and monitoring cardiac patients in the comfort of their own home. And joining Jason will be Nate Lachtman, who is a partner at the Global Law Firm Foley and Lardner, where he heads up the National Telemedicine and Digital Health Industry team. And importantly, Nate sits on the board of directors of the American Telemedicine Association, this emerging industry's key trade group. Nate's practice entails advising entrepreneurial healthcare providers and technology companies on strategy, business arrangements, compliance, and corporate matters in telemedicine, as well as digital health and remote patient monitoring and much, much more. Jason, Nate, welcome to the both of you to double take. Thanks for having us. It's a pleasure to be here, gentlemen. Jason, let's start with you and take the 10,000 foot view of telemedicine. Why after centuries of in-person healthcare delivery and increasingly positive outcomes over the history of this science, do we even need virtual care delivery? Is this a nice to have or I have to have? Yeah, it's an interesting question. I'm not really sure that we need to choose between those two or that we should choose between those two. It's kind of like having a Swiss Army knife on a two-week camping trip, right? There's moments where it's going to be, man, I need a knife. I need to cut a rope. I need to cut a twig. I need to open a can or something like that. And then certainly at the end of the day, if you've been hiking and dealing with your kids all day, you need to pop open a beer and you need a bottle opener. It's nice to have that. That's with a army knife. There are so many different types of telemedicine companies and technologies out there treating so many different types of maladies and giving access to clinicians in remote location to take care of patients in the home. As you can imagine, if you have a sick child or a sick wife, instead of going to the hospital every day over an extended period of time, if she has a condition that can be taken care of in the home where you can support them, where they're in an environment that they're comfortable with, that they feel safe in, where they know where the food is. Relatives and friends can support you and enable the care of those patients if you've got to work or if you've got to travel, you know that your child or your wife is in good hands in the comfort of their own home where they feel safe and secure. And then you're not sort of burning the midnight oil back and forth to the hospital, spending $40 a day at Boston Hospital just for parking. And then you've got to eat the food and sleep in the uncomfortable chair and try to sleep in one of those beds. For me, that would be a need to have, if got forbid anything like that happened to me and my family and I think it's a need to have for many people across the United States. The nice to have is maybe sort of a lower level lament, like a torn ACL or something like that. If you've got a child that is an athlete and has sort of serial injuries and they've got to get multiple MRIs and X-rays or whatever it might be. If you've got too many kids like I have who are in the ER every other week, to be able to get an MRI or an X-ray and have the results reviewed from the comfort of my own home, from my office. Because they're going to direct you to go to physical therapy somewhere or they're going to need to do surgery. Why do I have to go back and forth to the hospital rather than just review over a Zoom, the results of the X-rays. So I think it's something that we need in the United States for so many reasons that hopefully we can get into here on this podcast. And it's certainly nice to have. It's I'm a huge fan. I love it personally for a guy who's super busy. He travels and doesn't necessarily like hanging out in hospitals anymore. Over to you Nate. You see just about every corner of telemedicine, including from the investment angle. So can you give our listeners a sense for what happened in telehealth investing during the pandemic and maybe compare and contrast that with what's happening here in 2024? Sure. Let me start before the pandemic because while COVID accelerated adoption of telehealth, it certainly didn't create the industry. And the years leading up to the 2020 pandemic, we saw a confluence of five events that really helped grow and accelerate the use of telemedicine digital health. And they were as follows. First, smartphones, the technology became so much better and cheaper. I would expand that not just to smartphones, but all the sort of consumer-oriented wear weapons. Second, is comfort with e-commerce significantly has gone up. In the years and the last decade, we've seen people being very comfortable buying shoes, mattresses, other high touch items that you would maybe in the 90s, I would have thought, I'm never going to buy that online. Side unseen, great. Expanded also to banking and financial services. ATMs became much more rare walking to a bank. This is all before COVID. So healthcare, of course, would become part of that. The third was widespread insurance coverage following the passage of the Affordable Care Act. More and more Americans have now have access to affordable health insurance. And in fact, I think it was last year, the year before, 7% of Americans were uninsured, the lowest in history. So more people now have access to healthcare insurance, and they want to use it. Fourth, a supply, demand, and balance between the number of people who need healthcare services and the number of clinicians able to deliver it. That imbalance continues today. And then the final fifth element was low interest rates and tax stimulus really resulted in, I don't want to say excess, but extra capital out there on the market where folks wanted to use it to deploy that capital in a way that would outstrip the performance of S&P 500 or other types of, you know, just put it into an ETF. Enter venture. COVID hits. So we saw all of that growth in acceleration before COVID, right? And I've been doing telemedicine stuff for 12 of my last 20 years in practice. COVID hits, then adding to those five events, you have so many people staying at home going online, and you have a number of waivers of all of these laws and rules and restrictions during the public health emergency. The confluence of all of that resulted in a significant uptick in growth of new codes, both of early and accelerated financing and fundraising for these companies to pop really quick. And it became almost like a manifest destiny. Hey, who can get their turf locked in? Instead of like out westward ho, it was who can get it locked in online, right? Who can get that SEO type of traction? And what did we see advertising and social media? There's only limited ad space and only so many social platforms out there. So the spend went up, correspondingly the cap, the customer acquisition cost went up, and we saw all of these TikToks and whatnot pushing medical services. Fair enough. It was a big buzzy period of time because there were a finite number of companies being started telemedicine companies, and what seemed like almost an infinite amount of venture capital and new entrants, I should say, young, new, inexperienced entrants on the VC side, right? And the third thing is, in fact, the investors, in many ways, had to compete with one another for these opportunities to invest. And I think correspondingly valuations rose much more precipitously than they would otherwise have. So today, it's much more normalized, right? Telemedicine levels though remain high. Money has already been raised. Product market fit has already been established by many of these companies. It is no longer like a special party trick. It really is part and parcel of healthcare. So these companies now have to continue building and just moving towards profitability. Just like a traditional medical group would do, telemedicine enabled medical group. Next up, so that's the current stage today, next we're going to see profits. Then we're going to see M&A activity for some of those that aren't able to thrive, they'll get acquired. Then we'll see private equity start to roll in. More the later stage investors, not the early stage venture capital place. Got it. We at Newton actually have a late stage venture team as well. So we're always in the market looking around, but it seems to me that so we've seen the investors show up. We've seen the companies starting to expand, grow, and try to prove out their wares. But you always have the issue in healthcare. If you're going to get reimbursed, if you're going to get paid, you've got to have data, you've got to be showing either you're delivering at a better cost or with better outcomes. So Jason, you folks at SHL, you're endeavoring to market a telehealth EKG that's supported by this whole cardiologist network. I'm curious for a company like yours, is there data out there yet to support the telehealth outcomes versus the traditional brick and mortar healthcare industry? Sure. Investors are always asking about data. They want to make sure that they're not making some type of a binary investment that is dependent upon data. So they want data that's already published and peer reviewed. So much of the data is really single center experiences. Although recently there was a study that came out of Mass General Brigham by Dr. David Levine. It was looking at over 5,000 hospital acute care hospital at home patients dementia, stage four cancer, cardiac conditions like heart failure, really expensive, complex conditions to manage in the home. And so about half of those discharges were from the end of the hospital at home acute care hospital at home underneath the federal waiver. And then they looked at the costs and outcomes of about half of those patients that we're taking care of in the home or I'm sorry, in the hospital. And the outcomes were virtually the same. So you can deliver acute care hospital at home on Medicare patients at just the same quality and just the same outcomes at a lower cost and a better experience with higher quality scores. There was another really interesting study that was presented at American College of Cardiology. It was a single center study. It was down in South Florida. It was purely cardiac patients. And this was an interesting translation of what was originally a clinical study looking at outcomes and costs for patients that are discharged into the care of this cardiology group down in South Florida. These are really sick patients. And so they looked at over the course of a year, what is the cost to take care of this patient in the home when you can rule out a myocardial infarction, a heart attack in the home first, because obviously you need to do that. And it's one of the things our technology does. You can rule out or rule in a heart attack with a 12-lead EKG. And when you can rule out a heart attack, you can do a whole host of things to take care of patients in the home. And so he showed that he saved a significant millions and millions of dollars per humanity over the course of that year. And ultimately went to humanity and said, we'll take the risk. Send us all of your patients and we'll split the profits with you. So you're starting to see private equity get into the mix here where they're buying practices and they're willing to take on risk by taking care of patients in the home with really severe and complex conditions. And those are being rolled up into clinical studies that aren't yet published and peer reviewed articles. But that's some of the work that's in development because it just makes intuitive sense. People are more comfortable in their home. They have healthier minds, healthier people around them, healthier foods. They know where the carpet is so they don't trip over the carpet. And so ultimately that's going to lead to better outcomes and better outcomes equals lower cost. So it's a nascent field with regards to the data that's been developed, but it's starting to culminate now on some really exciting transformational data that's going to be difficult to argue against. Well, so it sounds like a timely question to be asking. Nate, as we all know, healthcare, one of the most regulated industries in the United States. And not only that, you have different rules and licensing requirements and all of the 50 states. So how much has regulatory complexity and uncertainty factored in to the present state of affairs and telehealth? It does. Of course it does. It's healthcare in the United States is very complicated, not just because it's the human body, but because it's such a large portion of our GDP, 18 to 19 percent of our GDP is a lot of our workforce and investment and initiatives are in that space. And accordingly, I think our government has some interest in ensuring there's rules of the road. My personal belief is that while regulations add legitimacy to a new and emerging industry, I think we are over regulated in the healthcare industry. Let's say you're a new founder, you're a tech only veteran, and now you want to get into technology-enabled healthcare. A lot of these regulations can be helpful to you. They say this is how to do things. This is what the government expects. So you're not caught flat-footed and you're aware on the front end when you're building it out that you're building something that can not only scale, but is sustainable. It's not easy to be a founder or an operator in health tech. You generally need to know people on your team who know medicine. Like that is what we are not selling bottles of water or in-app purchases on a game. You need to know medicine. You need to know regulatory. You need to know how to speak and understand the people who are holding the purse strings, particularly if there's third-party reimbursement. These folks can pay your claims for years and then say, you know what? We just did an audit and we did a sample size, a statistically valid random sample of 30 patient claims. And that's sufficient under the government's rules. And now we're going to apply that error rate. We found 75% of those claims shouldn't have been paid. And now we're going to seek repayment of all of your claims for the last six years. 75% of pay us all the money back. That's just devastating. So those are stakes that I don't think are appropriate to gamble on, particularly when you're a smaller emerging company. That's like bet the company type of risks that you're taking. The third thing you need to know is consumer psychology. This is not just like, hey, I'm going to walk into the nearby medical group or go to the nearby hospital because I got hurt. People are choosing. You know, when they look at like these companies, like SHL, they're choosing this vendor's products as company services because they believe they're going to be better than what they're offering for. And in order to succeed in that, I think you need to understand consumer psychology. Even if it's how is the website presented, how is the patient facing user interface look and feel? And then the fourth thing you need to know is e-commerce because now you're not competing against the typical word of mouth you're competing through like website search engines and those type of adwords. So you wrap all that together, not just a barrier, but it can be used as a competitive barrier or mode to entry. If you got the solution because there are solutions exist that are homogenous in operations and are scalable. Like Milton Burl said, if opportunity doesn't not build a door, right? And so I look at a lot of these founders as almost explorers and they're building new ways to deliver care through internet, through virtual only. And I plot them because they are absolutely reaching new patients in new ways. We hold farts like me won't fully appreciate it, but I know my kids absolutely will. Speaking of appreciation, I just want to say as a student and lover of Borsch Belt and stand up, you made me so happy bringing up Milton Burl. He did a little bit of diligence. He did some diligence on that one. I'm very happy. Well, so not as fun maybe as the Borsch Belt but Jason, but why don't we get back to you on the company level here as opposed to the high level that Nate's bringing on the industry as a whole, right? You're living through the regulatory and legal complexity of virtual healthcare delivery in the United States because you guys are endeavoring to market an EKG product. So I would love to know, you know, kind of you start, you know, top of the first inning and now whatever inning you're in, you're starting to encounter these obstacles, these regulatory challenges. And I'm curious how it's changed your expectations for the addressable market, for profitability, for how expansive this business can be. Yeah, let me just tag onto something Nate said that dovetails into this question as well. And that's the regulations that are so different across, you know, basically every state, you know, what is the standard of care and it's defined, you know, state by state by state. So yes, I think telemedicine particulars is overregulated right now and we do need some some type of federal oversight task force because it's quite silly to think that just because you're establishing a relationship over a video call versus through a form online form that somehow because I've seen your face or I've had a phone call with you in some circumstances that that is that my relationship with you is now established. There's a lot of forms that gather much more information, significantly more healthcare history through these forms than a verbal conversation can establish. So I think, you know, what is the standard of care makes a lot of what I do on a day and day basis quite complicated, unnecessarily. Nate and his team have been a tremendous partner for us. What is a complex issue? Nate simplifies for guys like me that are trying to get the plane off the ground here with telemedicine technology and services. Things like licensure, state by state, I understand why, you know, we just don't want to free for all that mass general can provide care to every single state in the union, right? I think when you're talking about telemedicine, it's overly complex. And I realized the blurring the lines between what's an insurance product and what's a cash paid business. There needs to be thick black lines there to delineate that. What we're offering is not an insurance product. And so I understand some of the regulation, but it does put pressure on startups that are trying to do good with a cash pay solution. We also have a, you know, a solution for institutions and physician practices because this is a prescribed product that is covered by insurance when it's when it's administered. The EKG test is administered either as a standalone or as a part of an office visit. But on the cash for our listeners, can I just get an interject quickly to get a little bit of clarity? Yeah, I think I get what you're talking about when it comes to 50 different states, 50 different standards of care. So your instance is, you know, I've got a physician licensed in the state of Massachusetts who works at Massachusetts General Hospital. Why can't that physician provide telehealth counseling to somebody in Utah? Is that sort of what you're getting at? That's right. I'm a telemedicine provider and I don't have a provider as a part of my network in Utah, but I have one in Massachusetts, right? And that patient in Utah could benefit from the services that my company provides. I have to spin up someone that's licensed in the state before I can sell something to that person in Utah to take care of somebody in Massachusetts. If that physician in Massachusetts may be licensed in Utah and that would be great, but if they're not, I've got to find some of this. It's just a matter of time and money. The other complexities with regards to a cash pay business is because it's not an insurance product. You know, there's a hundred percent pass through to the group that's providing the medical services. Since we don't own the medical group, we don't retain any of the medical services, which is totally fine. It's just you have to think about it differently than the B2B business. You can't own physician groups, right? You can't sort of have a physician group that you bring across the country. We could be a physician business. They could have our business. Right. And so just to delineate for our listeners that cash pay distinction, people might not be familiar. Why does a different regulatory scheme apply if it's insurance versus cash paid? Well, I'll turn that one over to Nate. And I think it's much, much, much better to answer in that question because he helped us through that landscape. Two things. First, there's different rules when you talk about particularly federal healthcare program dollars and all reimbursement as opposed to, so there's different laws and rules when as opposed to cash pay when someone has consumers choosing to speak with their own dollars. The second is probably the more practical rule is that the feds recover $10 for every $1 they spend cracking down on healthcare fraud enforcement. So they have a direct profit interest in order to do so, which doesn't exist in a self pay cash apartment. Got it. So actually I could pose this question to either or both of you. And it springs exactly from what you were just talking about, Nate, which is that the US government, and it was alluded to earlier, during the pandemic, created some unique telehealth codes to facilitate reimbursement and to facilitate the adoption of these services when everyone was stuck inside their houses. But they are scheduled to expire at the end of this year, 2024. So does that actually matter? Are there other ways around this? Can providers still find kind of legal means in the event the government doesn't extend this code situation so that the telehealth revolution can continue? It does matter, right? Because as I mentioned earlier, this is not only nice to have, it's a need to have for so many people. It addresses so many issues with disparity of care and healthcare equity, where people in rural areas or underserved areas can't get good access to specialty care. This is a great opportunity to smooth some of that disparity out in the United States. Certainly it's not perfect yet, right? There's not enough Spanish-speaking physicians. We need to incorporate a host of maybe translation technology into the telehealth visits, into the Zoom meetings, et cetera. But it addresses a big problem in the United States, and parts of this country don't have the access and the care they need. If you're somewhere in rural Mississippi, it's difficult to make a living as a cardiologist who just spent the last eight years of their life in med school and racked up a million dollars in loans, right? So if you can take care of that person from Biloxi in rural Mississippi, they have a chronic heart failure condition. You can give them some technology. You can give them an iPad. You give them a blood pressure cuff and a pulse ox, right? And there's facial recognition. There's voice recognition in the application. I know when that patient is, as a physician, is starting to deteriorate, and I can tell them when to get help. I can send notifications. We can send emergency medical services to those patients. So I think it does matter quite a bit. And there were some great things that came out of the COVID pandemic in terms of technological development in healthcare that are hopefully going to continue because if they don't, if the codes don't continue, right? We live in a fee for service world. Most of the US is still fee for service. Although value-based care is creeping its way in. And as I talked about earlier, taking on risk for taking care of sick patients in the home is a growing trend. But if these codes expire, physicians are going to do what they're getting paid to do, and telehealth is going to fall by the wayside. So not everybody can afford cash pay telemedicine. So I think it matters what it does. It does sound a little binary then, Nate. What do you make of that? Yeah, which I said is important. He's right. You can have the fastest car built out, but if has no fuel, it's not going to go anywhere. It's going to be sitting in the garage. And we don't want that to happen. I'm bullish on it. There is a proliferation of new codes and coverage for virtual care, most of which is remained in place and has been extended beyond the PHE. And I'm confident that even if all of it isn't made permanent, the vast majority will. I'm also confident that we're going to continue to see the AMA's Digital Medicine Payment Advisory Group continue to create new codes as they already have published, because AMA creates the CPT codes for AI and digital therapeutics. And remote patient monitoring more sophisticated and expanded uses of it. It's still expanding. The only limits here are the imagination and the capabilities of our current technology. And I can tell you that there's a number of just mind-blowing software and hardware developers in the mid-tech space that they say their stuff works clinically. It just not yet has gone through FDA clearance and approvals to fully prove it up. But once we see those things hit the market and then they're incorporated into other use cases and workflows, I think people are going to be really blown away. Really virtual care is becoming more of the next stage sort of where we are today, as it's more effectively woven into the fabric of traditional healthcare, such as telehealth is becoming health. Jason said earlier, hey, standard of care for telehealth, he's absolutely right. If you don't have a telestroke program and you are a hospital, you could get sued. And in fact, people have sued because Jordan Needle time is so much faster when someone's having a stroke if there's telehealth consults available. They can administer TPA much quicker and they say time is brain. So if the technology is advanced and becomes far more ubiquitous and the cost really is no longer that prohibitive, both because the tech is cheaper and there's third-party reimbursement. There's very little excuse, right? Not to have it, particularly when you're talking about standard of care. And similarly, we've seen, yes, proliferation of virtual-only services, but a new expanding that we're going to see more of in the next three to five is what we call click and mortar. Right? So the use of some in person and some digital. I agree. Just like people go into the office and stand at home for a couple days a week. Exactly. That's controversial. I doubt that somehow. Click and mortar. That's sticky. At home testing, flobotomous, come to your house and do the draw for 20 bucks. I mean, that almost seems impossibly cheap or these just self-test kits that you do. Basically, find it the right place in time. Why is it good for the hospitals or medical groups because they can manage their throughput and be much more efficient and productive and ultimately profitable while increasing patient satisfaction? Look, they say some ideas spark and some ideas flow, but some ideas really need to hammer and forge into being. And we've seen some of these virtual care things taken up immediately. Oh, that's almost too easy for the public to accept it because it's great. Others, it's a little bit more complicated. You got like a device, you got to wear it, then you got to monitor it and how does it sink to the app and there's a doctor getting it as a clinical staff. But that just takes a little bit of time and pressure. You can move mountains. So I'm really blown away by how far the industry has come from when I first started getting involved in it to today. And I can only imagine what it'll be done even just in the next six years if we follow Moore's Law. And last one, Nate, because we've spent a lot of time talking about the bullish picture of all the things that could be done perhaps more cheaply and efficaciously and efficiently in the home. Now that all this experimentation has been done, have we also seen limitations to the kinds of things patients aren't willing to do virtually and remotely? Have we started to develop kind of a list on both sides of things that do work for telehealth and things that might not? I have seen that, but less on actually the patient demand side. I think if you were to ask the patients, they just want convenience. They want immediacy and they want reliability. But we have seen that some situations might not be the most conducive to virtual care. In particular, we've seen some billing models, like some monetization models that might not be as conducive to consumer fairness. And that's where the FTC itself has stepped in on subscription models that are almost impossible to unsubscribe. Some of those kind of things that are not typically associated with medical care, whereas because the government and patients have historically paid for medical care on a fee for service basis, understanding about subscriptions or monthly fees in the medical, understanding the benefits of it and how it sort of spreads the cost out. It will take a little bit of time. But again, we're seeing plenty of our clients have subscription models where their patient customers are quite happy. As long as they have the ability to cancel it and not get charged for a full year, things are going well. So I think it's a continued evolution of the technology advancements and then applications and medical science of folks getting comfortable saying, oh, I can do, I mean, who is the first guy to ever do a laparoscopic surgery? Who is the first person to ever eat an oyster? It was always those early adopters. And that's really how medicine has evolved. It's by experimentation and standard of care through a community, not like you've passed a law that you can now do this. And so med tech is going to be just the same. Well, I am willing to be that guinea pig as someone who does not like going in for that food and that chair and all the stuff Jason was talking about before. Well, Nate Lachman of Foley and Lardner and Jason Baudelaire of SHL telemedicine. Thank you so much for joining us on Double Take. It was terrific. Thank you guys. Appreciate it. Thank you. For institutional clients only issued by Newton Investment Management North America LLC, Nimna or the firm. Nimna is a registered investment advisor with the US Securities Exchange Commission, SEC and subsidiary of the Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, BNY Mellon. The firm was established in 2021 and is part of the group of affiliate companies that individually or collectively provide investment advisory services under the brand Newton or Newton Investment Management. Newton currently includes Nimna and Newton Investment Management Limited, Nim, and Newton Investment Management Japan Limited, Nimjay. Material in this publication is for general information only. The opinions expressed in this document are those of Newton and should not be construed as investment advice or recommendations for any purchase or sale of any specific security or commodity. Certain information contained herein is based on outside sources believed to be reliable, but its accuracy is not guaranteed. Any reference to a specific security, country, or sector should not be construed as a recommendation to buy or sell investments in those securities, countries, or sectors. This material is provided for general information only and should not be construed as investment advice or recommendation. You should consult with your advisor to determine whether any particular investment strategy is appropriate. Statements are current as of the date of the material only. Any forward-looking statements speak only of as of the date they are made and are subject to numerous assumptions, risks, and uncertainties which change over time. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated and forward-looking statements. Some information contained herein has been obtained by third-party sources that are believed to be reliable, but the information does not been independently verified by Newton. Newton makes no representations as to the accuracy or the completeness of such information and has no obligation to revise or update any statement herein for any reason. Newton manages a variety of investment strategies. How ESG analysis is integrated into Newton's strategies depends on the asset classes and or the particular strategy involved. Newton does not currently view certain types of investments as presenting ESG risks and opportunities and believes it is not practicable to evaluate such risks and opportunities for certain other investments, where ESG is considered other attributes of an investment may outweigh ESG considerations when making investment decisions. The benefits of themes may vary depending on the type of security, investment rationale, and investment strategy. Newton will make investment decisions that are not based on themes and may conclude that other attributes of an investment outweigh the thematic structure the security is going to assign to. If distributed in the UK, Australia, and New Zealand, this podcast is issued by NIM and may be deemed a financial promotion. NIM is authorized and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, FCA, 12 Endeavour Square, London, E21JN in the conduct of investment business registered in England No. 0137193. NIM is also registered as an investment advisor with the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC to offer investment advisory services in the United States. If distributed in Canada, NIMNA is availing itself of the International Advisor Exemption IAE and the following provinces. Alberta, British Columbia, Manitoba, and Ontario, including the foreign commodity trading advisor Exemption in Ontario. The IAE is in compliance with the National Instrument 31-103 registration requirements, exemptions, and ongoing registrant obligations.